In this lesson, we will get a better understanding of the Cloud Access Model and
discuss the importance of authentication and authorization in the Cloud.
Controlling and restricting access to
the AWS management plane or API is done through the IAM service.
This is the overarching first step in Cloud security.
Provisioning, configuring, and accessing Cloud resources and data is achieved
via the API through the AWS console or CLI for users,
and AWS SDK for applications.
Authentication refers to who can sign in and use the API.
Authorization refers to what permissions that user has.
A very secure authentication model can prevent credentials for being misused.
A well-designed authorization model ensures that
the ability to perform malicious behavior is very limited.
Securing access to this API is arguably
the most important piece of the Cloud security design.
This is because with the correct permissions,
an actor can make the necessary changes needed to open the network,
access and decrypt sensitive data,
disable logging and traceability,
or modify access privileges.
It would not be inaccurate to say that traditional security controls such as
network firewalls and data encryption can
be sidestepped with the right access to the API.
Suffice to say, all other security controls in
AWS depend on a tightly managed IM strategy.